js-example-fraud-score
======================

Example use of DeployR as a real-time, R analytics scoring engine.

## Installation

There are two ways to install the _js-example-fraud-score_ example:

1. The preferred way is to use the [DeployR command line interface](https://github.com/microsoft/deployr-cli) (CLI) to install.

2. [Manual Installation](#manual-installation) without the DeployR CLI.

## About

This example demonstrates the use of
[DeployR](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com) as a real-time, R analytics 
scoring engine.

The example scenario mimics a real world application where employees at a 
fictitious bank can request _fraud scores_ for one or more bank account records 
to help detect fraudulent account activity.

This example is built using the _DeployR_ [RBroker
Framework](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/dev), the simplest way to 
integrate R analytics inside any Java, JavaScript or .NET application.

This example consists of three distinct parts:

1. Example R Analytics
2. Example Server Application
3. Example Client Application

The final section of this document provides additional details regarding the
_DeployR integration_ implemented for this example.

## Example R Analytics

```
Source: analytics/*
```

This example uses an R model built to score fictitious bank account data to help 
uncover fraudulent account activity. The model used is found here:

```
analytics/fraudModel.rData
```

The model uses three variables associated with individual bank accounts:

1. The number of transactions on the account
2. The account balance
3. The credit line on the account

This example makes use of a scoring function that uses the model to help
determine the likelihood of _fraud_ on a given account based on these
data inputs. The scoring function is found here:

```
analytics/ccFraudScore.R
```

The R scripts and data models used by this example application are
bundled by default within the DeployR 7.3 repository, inside the
example-fraud-score directory owned by testuser.

However, if for any reason your DeployR repository does not contain
these files you can add them using the DeployR Repository Manager as
follows:

1. Log in as testuser into the Repository Manager
2. Create a new repository directory called example-fraud-score
3. Upload analytics/fraudModel.rData to the example-fraud-score
   directory
4. Upload analytics/ccFraudScore.R to the example-fraud-score directory

## Example Server Application

Source:

```
server.js

server/**/*
```

The example server application represents a real world application, capable of 
processing client requests for _fraud scores_ on one or more bank account 
records.

The example server application is implemented as a simple 
[Express](http://expressjs.com/) Node.js Web application.

The example server application exposes a simple REST API through which client 
applications can submit _fraud scoring_ requests:

```
/fraud/score/{num_of_records}
```

The example server application handles client requests internally using the
[RBroker Framework](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/dev) to run
the required R analytics that _scores_ each requested bank account record.

The _score_, generated by the R analytics and returned to the server via
the _RBroker Framework_, is then pushed by the server application, using
[WebSockets](https://www.npmjs.org/package/ws) through an abstraction layer for 
real-time communication called [Primus](https://github.com/primus/primus) to 
client applications that have subscribed as listeners on:

```
/fraudengine/topic/fraud
```

## Example Client Application

```
Source: client/app/*
```

The example client application simulates a computer system made available to 
employees at a fictitious bank.

The example client application is implemented as a simple, single page
[AngularJS](https://angularjs.org) application. The single page is divided into
two distinct sections:

1. RBroker Runtime Window

    This window gives the user a live view of all activity that
is taking place through the _RBroker Framework_ on behalf of the client
application. The runtime data provided indicates among other things the
live throughput performance being delivered by _DeployR_ behaving as a
real-time R analytics scoring engine.

    Note: The details presented in the RBroker Runtime Window would not 
    typically appear in a real-world client application. These data are presented
    here simply to aid developers understand by observation how an 
    _RBroker Framework_integration works.

2. Bank Account Fraud Score Result Window

    This window displays the _fraud score_ results generated by the
real-time R analytics scoring engine powered by _DeployR_. The end user
can also use the _Execute_ button in this window to launch one or more
_fraud scoring_ requests.

The data for example bank account records is randomly generated by the
application. Requests are submitted by the client application through
the server application REST API.

The _score_ generated per request is returned to the client application within a 
JSON message delivered over a WebSocket channel.

## Manual Installation

**Note** The preferred way to install this example is to use the [DeployR command line interface](https://github.com/deployr/deployr-cli) (CLI).

1. Download and install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/download/), which ships with 
npm.

2. Clone the repository:

   ```
   $ git clone https://github.com/deployr/js-example-fraud-score.git
   $ cd js-example-fraud-score
   ```

3. Install the dependencies:

   ```
   $ npm install
   ```

4. Set the DeployR server `endpoint` location *if* not running at `localhost` in 
   the configuration file `config/config.json` 

## Running the Example

By default, the build configuration assumes an instance of the DeployR server
is running on `localhost`. If your instance of DeployR is running at some
other IP address then please update the `endpoint` property in the configuration 
file `config/config.json` as appropriate:

```
{
   "endpoint": "http://localhost:8.0.5",
   "port": "9080",
   "credentials": {
      "username": "testuser",
      "password": "TESTUSER_PASSWORD"
   },
   "logging": false,
   "constants" : {
      "REPO_OWNER": "testuser",
      "REPO_SCRIPT": "ccFraudScore.R",
      "REPO_DIRECTORY": "example-fraud-score", 
      "FRAUD_MODEL": "fraudModel.rData"
   }
}
```

To run this example application:

1. 

  Set the DeployR `endpoint` and the appropriate `credentials`

2.

  ```
  $ cd js-example-fraud-score
  ```

3.

  ```
  $ npm start
  ```

Observe the console output in your terminal window to determine if the server 
application has started successfully. Once started, open the client application 
in your Web browser:

```
http://localhost:9080
```

## Multiple Users Running the Example

By default, the example build configuration defaults to using *testuser* account 
credentials when authenticating with the DeployR server. If two or more users 
intend running this example application at the same time against the same 
DeployR server instance then:

1. Each user must update the `username` property in their `config/config.json`
configuration file, each indicating the *username* of their own user account.

2. The _Access Control_ setting for each of the R analytics file dependencies in 
the DeployR repository must be changed from _Private_ access to _Shared_ access.

## DeployR Integration Details

#### R Analytics Dependencies

DeployR-powered applications typically depend on repository-managed R analytics
scripts, models and/or data files. See the _DeployR_ [Repository Manager](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/help/repo-man/) for details on how best to manage your own R analytics dependencies.

This example depends on two repository-managed files:

1. /testuser/example-fraud-score/fraudModel.rData
2. /testuser/example-fraud-score/ccFraudScore.R

Both files, an R model and scoring function respectively, are owned by 
_testuser_ and can be found in the _example-fraud-score_ repository-managed 
directory owned by _testuser_.

These example file dependencies ship, pre-deployed in the _DeployR_ repository 
so there is no further action for you to take in order for this example to use 
them.

#### RBroker Framework - Pooled Task Runtime

This examples uses the [RBroker Framework](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/dev/rbroker/) 
to integrate _DeployR_ real-time scoring capabilities inside the example server 
application.

Specifically, this example uses the [Pooled Task Runtime](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/dev/rbroker/#pooled) 
provided by the _RBroker Framework_.

#### RBroker Framework - Throughput

The _Resize_ button in the _RBroker Runtime Window_ in the example client 
application lets the end user experiment with the size of the pool of R sessions 
associated with the _Pooled Task Runtime_.

We recommend experimenting with the size of the pool and observing the effect 
this has on throughput. See the following sections of the _RBroker Framework_ 
tutorial for related details:

- [Client Application Simulations](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/dev/rbroker/#simulation)
- [Client Application Profiling](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/dev/rbroker/#profiling)
- [Grid Resource Management](http://deployr.revolutionanalytics.com/documents/dev/rbroker/#gridprimer) 

## Building

To build the _Client_ portion of the application:

```
$ ./node_modules/.bin/browserify client/app/js/main.js > client/app/js/bundle.js
```

## License ##

Copyright (C) 2010-2016, Microsoft Corporation

This program is licensed to you under the terms of Version 2.0 of the
Apache License. This program is distributed WITHOUT
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY, INCLUDING THOSE OF NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Please refer to the
Apache License 2.0 (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) for more 
details.